.TH CANOPENTERM 1 "April 2026" "CANopenTerm 2.01" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
CANopenTerm \- tool for developing, testing and analysing CANopen networks and devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B CANopenTerm
[\fISCRIPT\fR]
.br
.B CANopenTerm
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B CANopenTerm
is an open-source tool for developing, testing and analysing CANopen networks
and devices.  It provides functionality for interacting with CAN-based systems,
with support for CANopen as well as SAE J1939 and OBD-II protocols.
.PP
When a script path is provided as the sole argument, CANopenTerm runs the script
in plain (non-graphical) mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I SCRIPT
Run the specified script file and exit.  Implies
.BR \-p .
Cannot be combined with other options.
.TP
.BI \-s " SCRIPT"
Run the specified script file (.lua extension may be omitted).
.TP
.BI \-i " INTERFACE"
Set the CAN network interface (e.g.\&
.IR vcan0 ).
.TP
.BI \-b " BAUD"
Set the baud rate using an index:
.RS
.IP 1
1 Mbit/s
.IP 2
800 kbit/s
.IP 3
500 kbit/s
.IP 4
250 kbit/s
.IP 5
125 kbit/s
.RE
.TP
.BI \-n " NODE_ID"
Set the default node ID (1\(en127, default: 0x01).
.TP
.B \-f
Open the widget window in full-screen mode.
.TP
.B \-p
Run in plain (non-graphical) mode.
.TP
.B \-t
Run the CANopen conformance test and exit.  Implies
.BR \-p .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/canopenterm/
Per-user configuration directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codb2json (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Michael Fitzmayer.
.PP
This manual page was written by Christopher Obbard <obbardc@debian.org>
for the Debian project.
